+++
id = "simple"
weight = 10
+++

{{% info_2_columns %}}

{{% info_2_columns_col1 %}}

## To put it simply

{{% /info_2_columns_col1 %}}

{{% info_2_columns_col2 %}}

You enter an URL in EcoIndex, which then calculates performance and environmental footprint of the tested webpage.

- **Environmental performance** is depicted by a score out of 100 and a grade from A to G (the higher the grade, the better!).
- **Environmental footprint** is materialized by greenhouse gases emissions and water consumption generated by the webpage.

Several criteria are taken into account by our calculation method :

- **Page complexity** : the DOM (Document Object Model) is the representation of the structure and elements of an HTML webpage. The more elements the DOM contains, **the more complex the page is to decipher**, therefore more complexe to display for the browser. Concretely, all this means your computer processor provides a greater effort to display the page, which **decrease your device lifespan**.
- **Size of data transferred** : before appearing on your screen, a webpage is a set of data stored on a server. When you access a webpage, your browser sends a request to the server in order to communicate this set of data, format it and display it on your screen. Here's the problem: bigger data require more energy to be transported from the server to the browser.
Please note that in this version of EcoIndex, calculation is based on a **Wi-Fi via ADSL type of internet connection**. Next version will take different types of internet connections into account, particularly 4G. Indeed, **4G connection requires up to 23 times more energy** than ADSL to transport the same amount of data.
- **number of HTTP requests** : this criterion allows us to take into account servers effort necessary to display the tested webpage. The greater the number of requests for one page, the more servers will be needed to render this page.

{{% /info_2_columns_col2 %}}

{{% /info_2_columns %}}
